No , it was n't Black Monday .
The finger-pointing has already begun .
`` The equity market was illiquid .
The Dow Jones industrials closed at 2569.26 .
The Dow fell 22.6 % on Black Monday .
At this point , the Dow was down about 35 points .
The market crumbled .
These stocks eventually reopened .
`` It screwed things up , '' said one major specialist .
But stocks kept falling .
Buyers stepped in to the futures pit .
But there were no buyers .
Just thought you 'd like to know .
George Morton
Hooker 's philosophy was to build and sell .
We want to build and hold . ''
Hoare Govett is acting as the consortium 's investment bankers .
They will be available in minimum denominations of $ 10,000 .
`` This feels more like a one-shot deal .
People are n't panicking . ''
The test may come today .
But fund managers say they 're ready .
Not all funds have raised cash levels , of course .
But most investors were seeking share prices and other information .
Trading volume was only modestly higher than normal .
Still , fund groups are n't taking any chances .
The centers normally are closed through the weekend .
The Janus Group had a similar recording for investors .
`` This is not a major crash , '' she said .
Now , those routes are n't expected to begin until Jan .
Those , too , are almost certain to arrive late .
`` I would n't expect an immediate resolution to anything . ''
The accord expired yesterday .
Pratt & Whitney is a unit of United Technologies Inc .
Martinair Holland is based in Amsterdam .
Bridget O'Brian contributed to this article .
`` The projects are big .
They can be C$ 1 billion plus , '' Mr. Richardson said .
`` We usually operate in that conservative manner . ''
`` Now we 're at the bottom of the heap . ''
`` People were even hoarding bags , '' he says .
Now producers hope prices have hit bottom .
Some say November .
I say 1992 . ''
Then a second explosion occurred .
Two workers died and six remain in the hospital .
`` And then you still have to negotiate . ''
Not everything looks grim for Quantum .
Petrolane is the second-largest propane distributor in the U.S. .
The largest , Suburban Propane , was already owned by Quantum .
Still , Quantum has a crisis to get past right now .
Revenue totaled $ 5 million .
Superconcentrates are n't entirely new for P&G .
It also has a product-testing facility in California .
Many called it simply a contrast in styles .
But some saw it as a classic negotiating tactic .
I do n't feel very ferocious .
I do n't feel either hard or soft .
But she stressed , `` I am against managed trade .
The company did n't break out its fourth-quarter results .
Closely held Morris Communications is based in Augusta , Ga .
Terms were n't disclosed .
Syms operates 25 off-price apparel stores in the U.S. .
He did n't forecast Phillips 's results .
A big reason for the chemical price retreat is overexpansion .
Companies added capacity furiously .
Third-quarter profits from gasoline were weaker .
The excess supply pushed gasoline prices down in that period .
The main reason remains weather .
Olivetti reportedly began shipping these tools in 1984 .
Northview officials could n't be located .
However , the agreement was canceled in June 1984 .
That would be the lowest level since the early 1970s .
Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week :
Energy
Mr. Spielvogel said he would n't launch a hostile bid .
He was brought in to turn around the company . ''
Ad Notes ... .
NEW ACCOUNT :
ACCOUNT REVIEW :
NOT-GUILTY PLEA :
KOREAN AGENCY :
Revenue soared to $ 117 million from $ 81.5 million .
Revenue rose to $ 225.5 million from $ 161.8 million .
`` Retailers are just in disarray . ''
Affiliated Publications Inc. reversed a year-earlier third quarter net loss .
Union officials have taken a beating politically as a result .
The government 's action was unusual .
The university is considering a settlement proposal made by Connaught .
French state-owned Rhone-Poulenc S.A. holds 51 % of Merieux .
The exchange ratio was never established .
Proceeds will be used to eliminate and restructure bank debt .
Weatherford currently has approximately 11.1 million common shares outstanding .
In Indianapolis , Lilly declined comment .
Bristol-Myers declined to comment .
In New York , the company declined comment .
In Kalamazoo , Mich. , Upjohn declined comment .
She analyzed families by their sleeping arrangements .
They came by their strangeness honestly .
`` An L.A. solution , '' explains Mr. Friedman .
He 's a bore .
`` Where 's the leadership ?
`` This further confuses retailers , '' she says .
Is this the wrong time to open a store ?
And , in some neighborhoods , rents have merely hit a plateau .
It makes investment castings and has traded over-the-counter .
The American Stock Exchange listed shares of two companies .
It had traded over-the-counter .
Columbia Laboratories Inc. , Miami , began trading with the symbol COB .
The pharmaceuticals maker had traded over-the-counter .
And his outlook improved after successful cataract surgery in August .
NCNB continued its foray into the Florida and Texas markets .
`` Giveaways just give people the wrong image , '' said Mr. Heinemann .
`` That perception takes the focus off the magazine . ''
`` We are trying to create quality and involvement . ''
Still , Time 's move is being received well , once again .
`` A few drops in circulation are of no consequence .
`` They said , ` follow CNN , ' '' he told reporters .
But for all its success , CNN has hit a plateau .
`` You ca n't live on that . ''
But that wo n't be easy .
CNN wants to change its viewers ' habits .
CNN 's viewer habits have been molded by its format .
Now , the push is on for more-distinctive shows .
Some in the industry are skeptical .
Admittedly , the principle in the cases is the same .
Charles F. Vihon
Call it the `` we 're too broke to fight '' defense .
Sunbelt foreclosed on the ranch .
A new president was n't named .
The device was replaced .
He made his remarks to a PLO gathering in Baghdad .
DWG is a holding company controlled by Mr. Posner .
`` The core rate is not really out of line . ''
The woman won the bet .
Attempts to produce `` pan-European '' programs have generally resulted in disappointment .
Most British programming is more of an acquired taste .
European drama has had better , though still mixed , fortunes .
The most popular such shows focus on narrow national concerns .
`` Given a choice , everybody will watch a home-produced show . ''
But frequently there is n't much choice .
The result is a new and huge appetite for programming .
The companies hope for a final agreement by year-end .
The venture 's importance for Thomson is great .
`` It 's very much a growing concern .
But that was all of three months ago .
`` The industry defies characterization . ''
Another contradictory message comes from Businessland Inc. , a computer retailer .
Companies will continue to war over standards .
The short-term outlook for Adobe 's business , however , appears strong .
Aldus officials could n't be reached for comment .
A bus is the data highway within a computer .
The gap between winners and laggards will grow .
But they will have to act quickly .
Population Drain Ends For Midwestern States
IOWA IS MAKING a comeback .
So are Indiana , Ohio and Michigan .
The gains , to be sure , are rather small .
More Elderly Maintain Their Independence
THANKS TO modern medicine , more couples are growing old together .
That share has remained at about 24 % since 1970 .
As people get even older , many become widowed .
Careers Count Most For the Well-to-Do
MANY AFFLUENT people place personal success and money above family .
Many of the affluent are n't comfortable with themselves , either .
Odds and Ends
This small Dallas suburb 's got trouble .
Introducing pool , argued Councilwoman Riley Reinker , would be `` dangerous .
It would open a can of worms . ''
Addison is no stranger to cans of worms , either .
Now comes the pool flap .
And the local expression for brother is `` brah , '' not `` bruddah . ''
Anita Davis
Of course , Mr. Mason did not use neutral language .
People are fast leaving the place where he is stuck . ''
Why constructive ?
But these are not the differences that make headlines .
It 's worth noting that both disapproving relatives are immigrants .
So far , the bubbles have been few and far between .
Sound familiar ?
Heard that before ?
Opponents of the cut are playing hardball .
The House appears reluctant to join the senators .
Things had just gone too far . ''
The revenue-raising provisions , which affect mostly corporations , would :
Among its provisions :
A similar provision is in the House version .
John E. Yang contributed to this article .
Are you kidding ?
Your paper needs a serious reality check .
Reva Levin
Cambridge , Mass .
Columbia Savings is a major holder of so-called junk bonds .
FRANKLIN SAVINGS ASSOCIATION -LRB- Ottawa , Kan. -RRB- --
`` I think it was a little premature on their part .
Does this signal another Black Monday is coming ?
Joseph Granville .
If you 're a technician , you obey the signals .
I see no major support until 2200 .
I see a possibility of going to 2200 this month . ''
Elaine Garzarelli .
Friday 's big drop , she says , `` was not a crash .
So she thinks the damage will be short-lived and contained .
My advice is to buy . ''
Ned Davis .
`` There was a unique combination in 1987 , '' he says .
`` Margin debt was at a record high .
There was tremendous public enthusiasm for stock mutual funds .
A hundred billion dollars in stock was subject '' to it .
In 1987 , such selling contributed to a snowball effect .
Sort of a two-step bear market . ''
`` That would be a normal bear market , '' he says .
`` I guess that 's my forecast . ''
Leon G. Cooperman .
Unlike 1987 , interest rates have been falling this year .
Unlike 1987 , the dollar has been strong .
`` So it 's a very mixed bag . ''
John Kenneth Galbraith .
Nevertheless , he says a depression does n't appear likely .
Mario Gabelli .
Jim Rogers .
`` Friday you could n't sell dollars , '' he says .
Frank Curzio .
Many people now claim to have predicted the 1987 crash .
If not , `` We could go to 2200 very soon . ''
Frank W. Terrizzi .
`` T-bills probably are the right place to be , '' he says .
I thought your editorial was factually accurate and deliberately elucidative .
Yes , he did .
Absolute rubbish .
Apparently , their verdict is in .
Right now they 're pursuing evidence .
Ah , yes , something called a Star Chamber .
No doubt that 's partially true .
No , Mr. Lantos 's complaints simply wo n't wash .
it defended appropriate constitutional safeguards and practical common sense .
The system is the problem , not an individual member .
Individuals can always have their hands slapped .
I do not by any means defend HUD management .
Raymond Weber
Parsippany , N.J .
Baxter v. Palmingiano , 425 U.S. 308 -LRB- 1976 -RRB- .
Clark S. Spalsbury Jr .
Estes Park , Colo .
Just a coincidence ?
It was n't intentional , we were all busy . ''
When selling is so frenzied , prices fall steeply and fast .
On Friday , some market makers were selling again , traders said .
`` Everyone was hitting everyone else 's bid , '' he said .
`` The pace of trading was orderly , '' he said .
But they are worried .
Nasdaq 's biggest stocks were hammered .
The OTC market has only a handful of takeover-related stocks .
But they fell sharply .
McCaw lost 8 % , or 3 1/2 , to 40 .
The turnover in both issues was roughly normal .
Commercial Intertech plummeted 6 to 26 .
Friday , October 13 , 1989
PRIME RATE :
10 1/2 % .
FEDERAL FUNDS :
Source : Fulton Prebon -LRB- U.S.A . -RRB- Inc .
DISCOUNT RATE :
7 % .
CALL MONEY :
9 3/4 % to 10 % .
The charge on loans to brokers on stock exchange collateral .
COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors Acceptance Corp. :
COMMERCIAL PAPER :
CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT :
The minimum unit is $ 100,000 .
Typical rates in the secondary market :
BANKERS ACCEPTANCES :
Negotiable , bank-backed business credit instruments typically financing an import order .
LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS :
LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES -LRB- LIBOR -RRB- :
FOREIGN PRIME RATES :
TREASURY BILLS :
7.63 % 13 weeks ; 7.60 % 26 weeks .
FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP . -LRB- Freddie Mac -RRB- :
Source : Telerate Systems Inc .
FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION -LRB- Fannie Mae -RRB- :
Source : Telerate Systems Inc .
MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST :
8.33 % .
And they plan to buy more today .
They could still panic and bail out of the market .
Then he jumped into the market :
`` I spent $ 30 million in the last half-hour . ''
Other money managers also opened their wallets .
It can happen before you can turn around . ''
All that now has changed .
There is n't a big shot , an agenda . ''
A few hours later , the stock market dropped 190 points .
Consider this :
`` That did not happen .
They learned they could survive it without much problem . ''
But some players were quick to seize the moment .
$ 15.2 billion of three-month and six-month bills .
Two-year notes , refinancing about $ 9.6 billion in maturing debt .
$ 9.75 billion of 52-week bills .
Connecticut Light & Power Co. --
Three million shares of $ 25 preferred , via competitive bidding .
B&H Crude Carriers Ltd. --
Four million common shares , via Salomon Brothers Inc .
Baldwin Technology Co. --
Blockbuster Entertainment Corp. --
Chase Manhattan Corp. --
14 million common shares , via Goldman , Sachs & Co .
Comcast Corp. --
$ 150 million convertible debentures , via Merrill Lynch .
CSS Industries --
1.3 million common shares , via Merrill Lynch .
Eastern Utilities Associates --
1.5 million common shares , via PaineWebber Inc .
Employee Benefit Plans Inc. --
Two million common shares , via Dean Witter Capital Markets .
Exabyte Corp. --
2,850,000 common shares , via Goldman Sachs .
Knowledgeware Inc. --
2.4 million common shares , via Montgomery Securities .
Oregon --
Washington , D.C. --
Virginia Public School Authority --
Austin , Texas --
California Health Facilities Financing Authority --
Connecticut --
Pennsylvania Higher Education Facilities Authority --
Tennessee Valley Authority --
Three billion of power bonds , via First Boston Corp .
University of Medicine And Dentistry of New Jersey --
West Virginia Parkways , Economic Development And Tourism Authority --
San Antonio , Texas --
South Dakota Health & Education Facility Authority --
But he 's not so sure about everyone else .
I 'm going to hold on .
If I sell now , I 'll take a big loss . ''
Now it 's happening again . ''
Merrill Lynch ca n't survive without the little guy . ''
And , finally , there were the gloaters .
`` I got out in 1987 .
Would Mr. Antori ever get back in ?
`` Are you kidding !
When it comes to money : Once bitten , 2,000 times shy .
Palmtops are n't far behind .
It 's huge . ''
Making computers smaller often means sacrificing memory .
Size and weight considerations also have limited screen displays .
The competitive sniping can get pretty petty at times .
Compaq is already taking aim at Zenith 's market share .
Analysts do n't see it that way .
What about Big Blue ?
Plunge ?
What plunge ?
IBM closed at $ 102 , down $ 5.625 .
He added : `` We learned a lesson in 1987 about volatility .
Analysts and competitors , however , doubt the numbers were that high .
`` This will raise the energy level of the show . ''
Tandem 's new high-end computer is called Cyclone .
That will spur Tandem 's growth .
`` We 're after a little bigger niche , '' he said .
Do n't jump yet .
This may sound strangely optimistic .
When it went down , by all tradition , the economy followed .
`` There 's nothing rational about this kind of action . ''
The financial-services industry was battered by the 1987 crash .
Growth is slower .
Profits are softer .
Debt burdens are heavier .
`` A lot of pent-up demand is gone . ''
`` That was offset by strength elsewhere .
But , in the process , the Fed risks reigniting inflation .
A panic on Wall Street does n't exactly inspire confidence .
Surveys suggested that consumer confidence was high before Friday .
The doomsayers had a receptive audience .
They are more sophisticated this time .
A Dow spokeswoman declined to comment on the estimates .
Most of the 10 have big commodity-chemical operations .
Du Pont declined to comment .
Monsanto declined to comment .
Himont , Quantum and Union Carbide all declined to comment .
Dow Chemical Co. --
Centel Capital Corp. --
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. --
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. --
Pricing details were n't immediately available .
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. --
The collateral is being sold by a thrift institution .
The interest-only securities will be sold separately by BT Securities .
