Big investment banks refused to step up to the plate to support the beleaguered floor traders by buying big blocks of stock , traders say .
Without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of where traders think the overall stock market is headed -- many traders were afraid to trust stock prices quoted on the Big Board .
But stocks kept falling .
As the Dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss Friday , the S&P pit stayed locked at its 30-point trading limit .
At those levels , stocks are set up to be hammered by index arbitragers , who lock in profits by buying futures when futures prices fall , and simultaneously sell off stocks .
-LRB- See related story : `` Fed Ready to Inject Big Funds '' -- WSJ Oct. 16 , 1989 -RRB-
Just thought you 'd like to know .
The group is led by Jay Shidler , chief executive officer of Shidler Investment Corp. in Honolulu , and A. Boyd Simpson , chief executive of the Atlanta-based Simpson Organization Inc .
The week 's total was up 6.2 % from 274,963 tons a year earlier .
Many have raised cash levels , which act as a buffer against steep market declines .
Mario Gabelli , for instance , holds cash positions well above 20 % in several of his funds .
This time , `` I do n't think we 'll get a panic reaction .
Nevertheless , the company 's reaction underscores the domino effect that a huge manufacturer such as Boeing can have on other parts of the economy .
But Mr. Baker said he thinks the earliest a pact could be struck would be the end of this month , hinting that the company and union may resume negotiations as early as this week .
PSE Inc. said it expects to report third earnings of $ 1.3 million to $ 1.7 million , or 14 cents to 18 cents a share .
Mr. Stookey , 59 years old , declined to be interviewed for this article , but he has consistently argued that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- Quantum will prosper through its new direction .
Benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , have skidded to between 35 cents and 40 cents .
An executive close to the company said RJR is spending about $ 140 million on network television time this year , down from roughly $ 200 million last year .
The U.S. termed its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' despite the fact that it is merely an extension .
Mexico , which was one of the first countries to conclude its steel talks with the U.S. , virtually doubled its quota to 0.95 % of the U.S. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas .
Elcotel will provide a credit-card reader for the machines to collect , store and forward billing data .
The company will also be producing a new line of convenience telephones , which do n't accept coins , for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings .
But P&G contends the new Cheer is a unique formula that also offers an ingredient that prevents colors from fading .
To be sure , Kao would n't have an easy time taking U.S. market share away from the mighty P&G , which has about 23 % of the market .
It also has a product-testing facility in California .
American and Japanese officials offered several theories for the difference in approach betwen Mr. Mosbacher and Mrs. Hills .
But some saw it as a classic negotiating tactic .
Many Americans have interpreted a 1986 agreement as assuring U.S. companies a 20 % share by 1991 , but the Japanese have denied making any such promise .
Traditional declined to estimate the amount of the loss and would n't say if it expects to show a profit for the year .
In the year ended June 30 , 1988 , Traditional reported net income of $ 4.9 million , or $ 1.21 a share .
Separately , the company said it would file a delayed fiscal-year report with the Securities and Exchange Commission `` within approximately 45 days . ''
But securities analysts say Phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and will probably post a drop in third-quarter earnings .
Last summer was notable for a heat wave and drought that caused utilities to burn more natural gas to feed increased electrical demand from air conditioning use .
`` We 've been very disappointed in the performance of natural gas prices , '' said Mr. Cox , Phillips 's president .
The Bush administration , trying to blunt growing demands from Western Europe for a relaxation of controls on exports to the Soviet bloc , is questioning whether Italy 's Ing . C. Olivetti & Co. supplied militarily valuable technology to the Soviets .
In trading on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong , the shares closed Wednesday at HK$ 4.80 each .
Also named in the suit is Ivan F. Boesky Corp. and Northview Corp. , the successor company to Vagabonds Hotels .
Financial Corp. said it agreed to buy the bonds after a representative of Ivan F. Boesky Corp. visited it in November 1983 and said Financial Corp. could improve its financial condition by purchasing the bonds .
On the Chicago Board of Trade Friday , wheat for December delivery settled at $ 4.0675 a bushel , unchanged .
Such a situation can wreak havoc , as was shown by the emergency that developed in soybean futures trading this summer on the Chicago Board of Trade .
For example , in the Oklahoma panhandle , 40 % or more of the topsoil is short of moisture .
On the New York Mercantile Exchange , West Texas Intermediate crude for November delivery finished at $ 20.89 a barrel , up 42 cents on the day .
But the beleaguered British advertising and consulting giant , which last week named a new chief executive officer to replace Maurice Saatchi , has been the subject of intense takeover speculation for weeks .
Separately , several Saatchi agency clients said they believe the company 's management shakeup will have little affect on them .
California 's Glendale Federal Bank awarded its $ 12 million to $ 15 million account to the Los Angeles office of Omnicom Group 's BBDO agency .
Samsung already owns Korea First Advertising Co. , that country 's largest agency .
`` Improved paper prices will help offset weakness in linage , but the retailers ' problems have affected the amount of ad linage they usually run , '' said Edward J. Atorino , industry analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc .
`` Times Co. 's regional daily newspapers are holding up well , but there is little sign that things will improve in the New York market , '' said Alan Kassan , an analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton .
GM officials want to get their strategy to reduce capacity and the work force in place before those talks begin .
That means two plants -- one in Scarborough , Ontario , and the other in Lordstown , Ohio -- probably will be shut down after the end of 1991 .
At Pontiac , however , the Camaro-Firebird decision appears to erase UAW hopes that GM would reopen the shuttered assembly plant that last built the plastic-bodied , two-seater Pontiac Fiero model .
The Fiero plant was viewed as a model of union-management cooperation at GM before slow sales of the Fiero forced the company to close the factory last year .
Both Merieux and Connaught are biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concerns .
The company said it planned to offer an undetermined number of common shares in exchange for the 585,000 shares of its preferred stock outstanding .
Analysts said that Merck & Co. , Eli Lilly & Co. , Warner-Lambert Co. and the Squibb Corp. unit of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. all benefited from strong sales of relatively new , higher-priced medicines that provide wide profit margins .
Joseph Riccardo , an analyst with Bear , Stearns & Co. , said that over the past few years most drug makers have shed their slow-growing businesses and instituted other cost savings , such as consolidating manufacturing plants and administrative staffs .
The drug , introduced last year , is expected to generate sales of about $ 300 million this year .
Analysts said they expected Upjohn 's profit to be flat or rise by only about 2 % to 4 % as compared with $ 89.6 million , or 49 cents a share , it earned a year ago .
Little Lily , as Ms. Cunningham calls herself in the book , really was n't ordinary .
She was raised , for the first eight years , by her mother , Rosie , whom she remembers as a loving liar , who realigned history to explain why Lily 's father did n't live with them .
Lily 's grandmother , no cookie baker , excised the heads of disliked relatives from the family album , and lugged around her perennial work-in-progress , `` Philosophy for Women . ''
The book loses some momentum toward the end , when Lily becomes more preoccupied with dating boys and less with her delightfully weird family .
`` An L.A. solution , '' explains Mr. Friedman .
Harry has avoided all that by living in a Long Island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels she barely seems to notice when her husband disappears for drug-seeking forays into Manhattan .
In 1984 the EPA notified Gulf Resources , which was a part-owner of the smelter , that it was potentially liable for sharing cleanup costs at the site under the federal Superfund program .
`` I did n't bother calling anybody ; I did n't even turn on TV . ''
Asked whether Friday 's action could help him avoid being Trumped by the New York real estate magnate , Mr. Crandall smiled broadly and said : `` No comment . ''
Certainly , the recent drop in prices does n't mean Manhattan comes cheap .
The thriving 34th Street area offers rents of about $ 100 a square foot , as do up-and-coming locations along lower Fifth Avenue .
The National Market System of the Nasdaq over-the-counter market listed shares of one company .
`` Each time the court revisits an issue , the justices will be forced by a dissent to reconsider the fundamental questions and to rethink the result , '' he said .
He , like Justice Brennan , considers dissents highly important for the future , a point that has n't escaped legal scholars .
Harvard Law School Professor Laurence Tribe says there is a `` generation-skipping '' flavor to current dissents .
Two of the four big thrifts were sold to NCNB Corp. , Charlotte , N.C. , which has aggressively expanded its markets , particularly in Texas and Florida .
PacifiCare Health Systems Inc. , proposed offering of 1.5 million common shares , of which 700,000 shares will be offered by PacifiCare and 800,000 shares by UniHealth America Inc . -LRB- PacifiCare 's 71 % -RRB- , via Dillon , Read & Co. Inc. , Goldman , Sachs & Co. and Dean Witter Reynolds Inc .
In an announcement to its staff last week , executives at Time Warner Inc. 's weekly magazine said Time will `` dramatically de-emphasize '' its use of electronic giveaways such as telephones in television subscription drives ; cut the circulation it guarantees advertisers by 300,000 , to four million ; and increase the cost of its annual subscription rate by about $ 4 to $ 55 .
`` That perception takes the focus off the magazine . ''
Time 's rivals news-weeklies , Washington Post Co. 's Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report , are less reliant on electronic giveaways , and in recent years both have been increasing their circulation rate bases .
But for all its success , CNN has hit a plateau .
That 's less than one-third the time that viewers watch the major broadcast networks .
Then there 's `` The World Today , '' the prime-time newscast featuring Mr. Shaw and Ms. Crier .
Mr. Amos says the Shaw-Crier team will probably do two live interviews a day , with most of the program , at least for now , appearing similar to CNN 's other newcasts .
She 's assembling a staff of about 35 investigative reporters who will produce weekly , in-depth segments , with an eye toward breaking big stories .
Still , one federal appeals court has signaled it 's willing to entertain the notion , and the lawyers have renewed their arguments in Texas and eight other states where the defense is permitted under state law .
Sunbelt foreclosed on the ranch .
The White House said minors have n't any right to abortion without the consent of their parents .
Hundreds of East Germans flocked to Bonn 's Embassy in Warsaw , bringing to more than 1,200 the number of emigres expected to flee to the West beginning today .
Friday , 42 franchisees announced the formation of an association -- called A.P. Association Inc. -- to `` preserve the integrity of the Arby 's system . ''
The franchisees , owners or operators of 1,000 of the 1,900 franchised Arby 's in the U.S. , said : `` We have concluded that continued control of Arby 's by Victor Posner is totally unacceptable to us , because it is extremely likely to cause irreparable damage to the Arby 's system .
The legislation requires thrifts to divest themselves of junk bonds in the new , somber regulatory climate .
It said the sale would give it positive tangible capital of $ 82 million , or about 1.2 % of assets , from a negative $ 33 million as of Sept. 30 , thus bringing CenTrust close to regulatory standards .
As the 1992 economic integration approaches , Europe 's cultural curators have taken to the ramparts against American `` cultural imperialism , '' threatening to impose quotas against such pop invaders as `` Dallas , '' `` Miami Vice '' and `` L.A. Law . ''
Mega-hits in Germany or Italy rarely make it even to France or Great Britain , and almost never show up on U.S. screens .
Also riveting to the British are hours of dart-throwing championships , even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons .
Since production costs were guaranteed , it did n't matter that a program could n't be sold abroad or put into syndication , as most American programs are .
Now , however , commercial channels are coming to most European countries , and at the same time , satellite and cable technology is spreading rapidly .
The 50-50 joint venture , which may be dubbed Eurodynamics , would have combined annual sales of at least # 1.4 billion -LRB- $ 2.17 billion -RRB- and would be among the world 's largest missile makers .
The venture 's importance for Thomson is great .
To justify 50-50 ownership of the planned venture , Thomson would make a cash payment to British Aerospace .
Interprovincial Pipe Line Co. said it will delay a proposed two-step , 830 million Canadian-dollar -LRB- US$ 705.6 million -RRB- expansion of its system because Canada 's output of crude oil is shrinking .
Mr. Lichtblau stressed that the delay of Interprovincial 's proposed expansion wo n't by itself increase U.S. dependence on offshore crude , however , since Canadian imports are limited in any case by Canada 's falling output .
The company said normal seasonal softness and lost orders caused by prolonged labor talks reduced shipments by 200,000 tons in the latest quarter , compared with the second quarter .
`` It 's hard to know what to expect at this point , '' said Peter Rogers , an analyst at Robertson Stephens & Co .
Companies will continue to war over standards .
Mr. Crabs said this probably is behind the expected weak performance of Aldus Corp. , maker of a widely used computer publishing program .
`` Wyse has done well establishing a distribution business , but they have n't delivered products that sell , '' said Kimball Brown , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities .
Ever-more powerful desk-top computers , designed with one or more microprocessors as their `` brains , '' are expected to increasingly take on functions carried out by more expensive minicomputers and mainframes .
But they will have to act quickly .
And although Pennsylvania and Massachusetts suffered slight declines earlier in the decade , they are growing again .
MANY AFFLUENT people place personal success and money above family .
`` I think there 's some people worried about something pretty ridiculous , '' Councilman John Nolan says .
`` I thought this was all taken care of in ` The Music Man .
The only thing Robert Goldberg could praise about CBS 's new show `` Island Son '' -LRB- Leisure & Arts , Sept. 25 -RRB- was the local color ; unfortunately neither he nor the producers of the show have done their homework .
It could n't be more obvious that `` Chicken Soup '' is being made from an old recipe .
The best moments in the show occur at the beginning and the end -LRB- and occasionally in the middle -RRB- , when Mr. Mason slips into his standup mode and starts meting out that old-fashioned Jewish mischief to other people as well as to himself .
Here 's what Ronald Reagan said after the 1987 crash : `` The underlying economy remains sound .
In addition , the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the House includes a capital-gains provision .
The Senate 's decision was a setback for President Bush and will make approval of a capital-gains tax cut less certain this year .
The Senate bill was pared back in an attempt to speed deficit-reduction through Congress .
Another big question hovering over the debate is what President Bush thinks .
Also missing from the Senate bill is the House 's repeal of a law , called Section 89 , that compels companies to give rank-and-file workers comparable health benefits to top paid executives .
Asked why senators were giving up so much , New Mexico Sen. Pete Domenici , the ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee , said , `` We 're looking like idiots .
It worked , others said , because there were no exceptions : all revenue-losing provisions were stricken .
The approval of the Senate bill was especially sweet for Sen. Mitchell , who had proposed the streamlining .
-- Raise $ 851 million by suspending for one year an automatic reduction in airport and airway taxes .
In Friday 's edition , the name of the unit was misstated .
`` I 'm the only one who said there would be an October massacre , all through late August and September , '' says Mr. Granville , once a widely followed market guru and still a well-known newsletter writer .
He ticks off several major differences between now and two years ago .
Unlike 1987 , the dollar has been strong .
But we came into Friday with a conservative portfolio , so I would look to do some modest buying '' on behalf of clients . ``
`` Friday you could n't sell dollars , '' he says .
Renaissance , which manages about $ 1.8 billion , drew stiff criticism from many clients earlier this year because it pulled entirely out of stocks at the beginning of the year and thus missed a strong rally .
As your editorial rightly pointed out , Samuel Pierce , former HUD secretary , and Lance Wilson , Mr. Pierce 's former aide , `` are currently being held up to scorn for taking the Fifth Amendment .
Absolute rubbish .
Apparently , their verdict is in .
No , to my mind , the Journal did not `` defend sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public trust ... ''
Raymond Weber
The Fifth Amendment states in relevant part that no person `` shall be compelled , in any criminal case , to be a witness against himself . ''
Thus , in a criminal case , a prosecutor can not comment on a defendant 's failure to testify nor can the defendant be compelled to take the stand as a witness , thus forcing him to `` take the Fifth . ''
The Supreme Court and some states have specifically recognized that `` the Fifth Amendment does not preclude the inference where the privilege is claimed by a party to a civil cause . ''
Allowing the defendant to take the Fifth in a civil matter is not based on a constitutional right to refuse to testify where one 's testimony harms him in the civil matter , but because the testimony in the civil matter could be unconstitutionally used against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution .
Ten points of the drop occurred during the last 45 minutes of trading .
Nasdaq volume Friday totaled 167.7 million shares , which was only the fifth busiest day so far this year .
Everybody was trying to do the same thing at the same time . ''
`` Two years ago we were carrying huge inventories and that was the big culprit .
McCaw lost 8 % , or 3 1/2 , to 40 .
On a day when negative takeover-related news did n't sit well with investors , Commercial Intertech , a maker of engineered metal parts , said Haas & Partners advised it that it does n't plan to pursue its previously reported $ 27.50-a-share bid to buy the company .
Friday , October 13 , 1989
The base rate on corporate loans at large U.S. money center commercial banks .
CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT :
Source : Telerate Systems Inc .
FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION -LRB- Fannie Mae -RRB- :
Even Friday 's slump leaves investors ahead more than 20 % , well above the annual average for stocks over several decades .
`` The only thing you do n't have , '' he said , `` is the ` portfolio insurance ' phenomenon overlaid on the rest . ''
Most institutional investors have abandoned the portfolio insurance hedging technique , which is widely thought to have worsened the 1987 crash .
Meanwhile , Friday brought a reprieve for money managers whose investment styles had put them at odds with the market rally .
The administration has been trying to push the dollar lower ; the Fed has been resisting .
Then , as now , the budget debate was behind schedule and automatic spending cuts were within days of taking hold .
One of the biggest reasons that new talks are n't likely to come about is that , as everyone learned in 1987 , the economy and the market can survive a one-day 508-point tumble .
But administration officials privately agree with Mr. Panetta , who said a precipitous drop this week `` is going to force the president and Congress to take a much harder look at fiscal policy . ''
Rep. Panetta said that OMB 's figure would still be enough to avoid permanent across-the-board cuts , but added : `` We 're getting very close to the margins here . ''
Employee Benefit Plans Inc. --
Knowledgeware Inc. --
California Health Facilities Financing Authority --
Three billion of power bonds , via First Boston Corp .
$ 143 million of parkway revenue bonds , Series 1989 , via a PaineWebber group .
$ 640 million of gas and electric revenue refunding bonds , via a First Boston group .
But Robert Showalter , an official of the association , said no special bulletins or emergency meetings of the investors ' clubs are planned .
`` I just stopped by to see how much I would have lost . ''
The crowded field for notebook-sized computers is about to become a lot more crowded .
Compaq Computer Corp. 's long-awaited entry today into the notebook field is expected to put immediate heat on others in the market , especially Zenith Electronics Corp. , the current market leader , and on a swarm of promising start-ups .
Compaq 's series of notebooks extends a trend toward downsizing in the personal computer market .
One analyst , noting that most such machines are about two inches thick , takes exception to the name .
At stake is what Mike Swavely , Compaq 's president of North America operations , calls `` the Holy Grail of the computer industry '' -- the search for `` a real computer in a package so small you can take it everywhere . ''
Toward that end , experts say the real battle will take place between center-stage players like Toshiba , Zenith and now Compaq .
IBM closed at $ 102 , down $ 5.625 .
Other new lows included Navistar International Corp. , Union Carbide Corp. and Bethlehem Steel Corp. , all of which are included in the industrial average .
Ford Motor Co. said it acquired 5 % of the shares in Jaguar PLC .
He said Schwab had increased margin requirements `` so customers have more of a cushion . ''
He added : `` We learned a lesson in 1987 about volatility .
At the time , Hertz said its annual fees to those airlines amounted to $ 20 million and that the value of redeemed awards topped $ 15 million .
Analysts and competitors , however , doubt the numbers were that high .
Further fractioning the late-night audience is the addition of the `` Arsenio Hall Show , '' syndicated by Paramount Communications Inc .
The results , which are in line with analysts ' estimates , reflect `` a continued improvement in our U.S. business , '' said James Treybig , Tandem 's chief executive officer .
`` The answer is n't price reductions , but new systems , '' he said .
Even Mr. Treybig is reluctant to abandon this notion , insisting that Tandem 's new machines are n't replacements for IBM 's mainframes .
That has changed , partly because the two years following the worst stock-market plunge in history have been reasonably comfortable .
Sharply falling stock prices do reduce consumer wealth , damage business confidence and discourage the foreign investors upon whom the U.S. now relies for financial sustenance .
The Fed , which until Friday had been resisting moves to ease credit , is now poised to pour money into the economy if needed to soothe the markets .
In the third quarter of 1987 , the economy spurted at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 5.3 % .
'' Today , he frets , exports and business investment spending may be insufficient to pick up the slack if stock prices sink this week and if consumers retrench in reaction .
A company with a strong balance sheet can withstand an unanticipated storm ; a highly leveraged company may end up in bankruptcy court .
But , in the process , the Fed risks reigniting inflation .
The economy does , however , depend on the confidence of businesses , consumers and foreign investors .
Moreover , the Wilmington , Del. , company is helped when prices weaken on the commodity chemicals it buys for its own production needs , such as ethylene .
Monsanto Co. , too , is expected to continue reporting higher profit , even though its sales of crop chemicals were hurt in the latest quarter by drought in northern Europe and the western U.S. .
Some analysts hedge their estimates for Quantum , because it is n't known when the company will book certain one-time charges .
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. --
The offering , Series 102 , backed by Freddie Mac 8 1/2 % securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 28.4 years , was priced before the market 's afternoon surge .
There were no major Eurobond or foreign bond offerings in Europe Friday .
